Liftoff

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xPivVrUOcOs

Hi. So I created a game in pygame which I call Liftoff, where the purpose of the game is to control a spaceship by using arrow keys or the a and d keys to move left and right so you can collect coins which allow the player to ascend higher and higher. The concept of this game is based on an old iOS game that I used to play called “Mega Jump”. It has some of the same mechanics, such as you can wrap your character around the screen and the score depends on how high your character ascends, and 100 points are added every time you collect a coin. 
There are a lot of things missing from this game which I would have liked to add, such as a shop to purchase different characters with the coins you obtain, power-ups, enemies, and different levels. However, seeing as this is my first game let alone my first programming project, most of my time was spent learning how to create the game itself before I could add any important features. 
The game is basically the same thing over and over and there is no end goal at the moment, you just play until you get bored, but I feel like I learned some important aspects of creating a game. For example, I became more familiar with the pygame library and its functions used for loading images and displaying them onto the screen, I learned how to maneuver the player around the screen, and I did a little bit of object-oriented programming for the player and the coins which was useful for player movement and collision between the only two different objects in this game. 
Quite a few times I would run the game and only the background or a black screen would appear because I would draw the background AFTER drawing the objects and the player onto the screen, or just little things if I did in the wrong order would not lead to the outcome that I was expecting. But once of the most important things I learned is the importance of code organization. If you look at my code for this project, it is not the most organized, and I looked at examples for how other people organized their code, where they would have sprites in one module, settings for the game in another module, and the game itself was its own class. So this just means that I have a lot more to learn in that aspect.
Pretty much the main resources that I used for this project were YouTube tutorials for similar types of games and then implementing them into my own game. The main source that I used was from a YouTuber by the name of Coding With Russ, he makes great videos which really helped me out for this project. I know I had a lot of fun creating this very simple game, so I would like to expand upon it more, add the things that it’s missing, and maybe create more games in the future.
